Privacy Statement
Welcome to GeeksforGeeks.
Sanchhaya Education Pvt. Ltd., registered and headquartered at143A, Sovereign Corporate Towers, 9th Floor, Sector-136, NOIDA, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh,201305, hereinafter referred to as GeeksforGeeks (“us”, “we”, or “our”) operates https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/ (hereinafter referred to as “Service”).
Our Privacy Policy governs your visit to https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/, and explains how we collect, safeguard and disclose information that results from your use of our Service.
By using our services, you agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this policy. Unless otherwise defined in this Privacy Policy, the terms used in this Privacy Policy have the same meanings as in our Terms and Conditions.
Our Terms and Conditions (“Terms”) govern all use of our Service and together with the Privacy Policy constitutes your agreement with us (“agreement”).

Definitions
Service means the https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/ website & app operated by GeeksforGeeks.
Personal Data  means data about a living individual who can be identified from that data (or from that and other information either in our possession or likely to come into our possession).
Usage Data is data collected automatically either generated by the use of Service or from Service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit).
Cookies are small files stored on your device (computer or mobile device).
Data Controller  means a natural or legal person who (either alone or jointly or in common with other persons) determines the purposes for which and the manner in which any personal data are, or are to be, processed. For the purpose of this Privacy Policy, we are a Data Controller of your data.
Data Processors (or service providers) means any natural or legal person who processes the data on behalf of the Data Controller. We may use the services of various Service Providers in order to process your data more effectively.
Data subject is any living individual who is the subject of Personal Data.
The user is the individual using our Service. The User corresponds to the Data Subject, who is the subject of Personal Data.

Information Collection and Use
We collect several different types of information for various purposes to provide and improve our Service to you.

Types of Data Collected

Personal Data
While using our Service, we may ask you to provide us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify you (“Personal Data”). Personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to your name, email address, phone number, the contents of the message and/or attachments you may send us, and any other information you may choose to provide.
We may use your Personal Data to contact you with newsletters, marketing or promotional materials and other information that may be of interest to you. You may opt out of receiving any, or all, of these communications from us by following the unsubscribe link.

Usage Data
We may also collect information that your browser/app sends whenever you visit our Service or when you access Service by or through any device (“Usage Data”).
This Usage Data may include information such as your computer’s Internet Protocol address (e.g. IP address), browser/app type, browser version, the pages of our Service that you visit, the time and date of your visit, the time spent on those pages, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data.
When you access Service with a device, this Usage Data may include information such as the type of device you use, your device unique ID, the IP address of your device, your device operating system, the type of Internet browser you use, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data.

Location Data
We may use and store information about your location if you give us permission to do so (“Location Data”). We use this data to provide features of our Service, to improve and customize our Service.
You can enable or disable location services when you use our Service at any time by way of your device settings.

Tracking Cookies Data
We use cookies and similar tracking technologies to track the activity on our Service and we hold certain information.
Cookies are files with a small amount of data which may include an anonymous unique identifier. Cookies are sent to your browser or application from a website and stored on your device. Other tracking technologies are also used such as beacons, tags and scripts to collect and track information and to improve and analyse our Service.
You can instruct your browser/app to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. However, if you do not accept cookies, you may not be able to use some portions of our Service.
Examples of Cookies we use:
I. Session Cookies: We use Session Cookies to operate our Service.
II. Preference Cookies: We use Preference Cookies to remember your preferences and various settings.
III. Security Cookies: We use Security Cookies for security purposes.
IV. Advertising Cookies: Advertising Cookies are used to serve you with advertisements that may be relevant to you and your interests.

Social Media Data
We may provide you with the option to register with us using your existing social media account details like your Facebook, Twitter or other social media account. If you choose to do this, we may receive certain profile information about you from your social media provider. The profile information we receive may vary based on the social media provider concerned, but will often include your name, email address, friends list, and profile picture, as well as anything else you choose to make public on such a social media platform. We shall only use this information as given in this privacy policy. For more information on personal information usage Third Party Social Media provider, please refer to the ‘Links to Other Sites’ section.

Other Data
While using our Service, we may also collect the following information: sex, age, date of birth, place of birth, passport details, citizenship, registration at place of residence and actual address, telephone number (work, mobile), details of documents on education, qualification, professional training, employment agreements, NDA agreements, information on bonuses and compensation, information on marital status, family members, social security (or other taxpayer identification) number, office location and other data.

Use of Data:
We use the information we collect in various ways, including to:

    Provide, operate, and maintain our website & app
    Improve, personalize, and expand our website & app
    Understand and analyse how you use our website & app
    Develop new products, services, features, and functionality
    Communicate with you, either directly or through one of our partners, including for customer service, to provide you with updates and other information relating to the website & app, and for marketing and promotional purposes
    Send you emails
    Find and prevent fraud
    Personalize Advertisements as per your interests and send you marketing and promotional content via Phone Calls, WhatsApp and Email.

I. Log Files
GeeksforGeeks follows a standard procedure of using log files. These files log visitors when they visit websites & app. All hosting companies do this as part of hosting services’ analytics. The information collected by log files include internet protocol (IP) addresses, browser type, Internet Service Provider (ISP), date and time stamp, referring/exit pages, and possibly the number of clicks. These are not linked to any information that is personally identifiable. The purpose of the information is for analyzing trends, administering the site, tracking users’ movement on the website & app, and gathering demographic information.

II. Cookies and Web Beacons
Like any other website & app, GeeksforGeeks uses ‘cookies’. These cookies are used to store information including visitors’ preferences, and the pages on the website & app that the visitor accessed or visited. The information is used to optimize the users’ experience by customizing our web page content based on visitors’ browser type and/or other information.

III. DoubleClick DART Cookie
→ Google, as a third party vendor, uses cookies to serve ads on GeeksforGeeks.
→ Google’s use of the DART cookie enables it to serve ads to our site’s visitors based upon their visit to GeeksforGeeks and other sites on the Internet.
→ Users may opt out of the use of the DART cookie by visiting the Google ad and content network privacy policy at the following URL – http://www.google.com/privacy_ads.html

Retention of Data
We retain all Personal Data in accordance with our data retention policy which abides by applicable Data Protection Laws. The retention period depends on the type of data and existence of the user’s account. We retain data for as long as the account stays active and delete it within 15 days after the account is deleted. If the user does not deactivate his/her account, we retain the data indefinitely.
Unless the user deletes their account, we will retain the user’s data for 15 days. If the user deletes their account, we will delete their data within 15 days, we do not have any feature for deactivation of the user account, therefore if the user wants to remove their data then they will have to delete their account.
We will retain and use your Personal Data to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations (for example, if we are required to retain your data to comply with applicable laws), resolve disputes, and enforce our legal agreements and policies.
We will also retain Usage Data for internal analysis purposes. Usage Data is generally retained for a shorter period, except when this data is used to strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of our Service, or we are legally obligated to retain this data for longer time periods.

Transfer of Data
Your information, including Personal Data, may be transferred to – and maintained on – computers located outside of your state, province, country or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ from those of your jurisdiction.
If you are located outside India and choose to provide information to us, please note that we transfer the data, including Personal Data, to India and process it there.
Your consent to this Privacy Policy followed by your submission of such information represents your agreement to that transfer.
GeeksforGeeks will take all the steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this Privacy Policy and no transfer of your Personal Data will take place to an organisation or a country unless there are adequate controls in place including the security of your data and other personal information.

Disclosure of Data  
We may release personal information when we believe in good faith that release is necessary to comply with the law; enforce or apply our conditions of use and other agreements; or protect the rights, property, or safety of GeeksforGeeks, our employees, our users, or others. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organizations for fraud protection and credit risk reduction.
I. With Your Consent: Except as set forth above, you will be notified when your personal information may be shared with third parties, and will be able to prevent the sharing of this information.

Security of Data
The security of your data is important to us but remember that no method of transmission over the Internet or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. While we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your Personal Data, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.

Service Providers
We may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our Service (“Service Providers”), provide Service on our behalf, perform Service-related services or assist us in analysing how our Service is used.
These third parties have access to your Personal Data only to perform these tasks on our behalf and are obligated not to disclose or use it for any other purpose.

Profile Visibility
While employing our website & app, your profile shall be visible to other users and vice versa. Further, some activities that you engage in on our platform shall be broadcasted to other users. Your continued use of the GeeksforGeeks website & app shall constitute acceptance of this feature. 

Analytics
We use Google Analytics on our website & app to

    Monitor site traffic and behavior flows of users
    Measure the effectiveness of on-site products
    Measure the effectiveness of off-site marketing campaigns and tactics.

Google has developed the Google Analytics opt-out browser add-on; if you want to opt out of Google Analytics, you can download and install the add-on for your web browser here. We also use Fabric for our reporting of Application crashes and Analytics. For more information on their Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, click here.

CI/CD tools
We may use third-party Service Providers to automate the development process of our Service.

Advertising
Some of the advertisers on our site may use cookies and web beacons. We may display personalized ads to our users. Each of our advertising partners has their own Privacy Policy for their policies on user data.

Payments
We may provide paid products and/or services within Service. In that case, we use third-party services for payment processing (e.g. payment processors).
We will not store or collect your payment card details. That information is provided directly to our third-party payment processors whose use of your personal information is governed by their Privacy Policy. These payment processors adhere to the standards set by PCI-DSS as managed by the PCI Security Standards Council, which is a joint effort of brands like Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover. PCI-DSS requirements help ensure the secure handling of payment information.

Non-Transferability
The rights to a user account and paid courses may not be transferred or assigned to another account/person/entity, whether by sharing, requesting, operation of law, or otherwise. Any effort to share account rights, purchased courses, or any other privileges granted to the user is void and will not be considered. As a result, transferring account rights is not permitted.

Links to Other Sites
Our Service may contain links to other sites that are not operated by us. If you click a third party link, you will be directed to that third party’s site. We strongly advise you to review the Privacy Policy of every site you visit.
We have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services. You can choose to disable cookies through your individual browser options. To know more detailed information about cookie management with specific web browsers, it can be found at the browsers’ respective websites & app.

Report Vulnerabilities
You can send a report regarding vulnerabilities  to support@geeksforgeeks.org including the following:

– Vulnerability Description
– Affected URL(s)
– Steps to reproduce
– POC(Screenshot/Video)
– Resolution(Optional)
We only  accept vulnerability reports for the following domains:

www.geeksforgeeks.org
Auth.geeksforgeeks.org
Write.geeksforgeeks.org
Practice.geeksforgeeks.org
Script.geeksforgeeks.org
Ide.geeksforgeeks.org
Api.geeksforgeeks.org

Upon confirmation of the aforementioned vulnerabilities, we provide certificates and goodies to the individuals who reported the issue. Please note that we will only be able to provide the certificates and goodies if you are a resident of India. Furthermore, we do not provide monetary rewards.

Commercial Communication

We may still send you commercial communication even if you have chosen DND for your telecommunications service provider. If you want to enable DND, please email us at support@geeksforgeeks.org, and we won’t send you any commercial communications.

Children’s Privacy
Our Services are not intended for use by children under the age of 18 (“Child” or “Children”).
We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from Children under 18. If you become aware that a Child has provided us with Personal Data, please contact us at support@geeksforgeeks.org. If we become aware that we have collected Personal Data from Children without verification of parental consent, we take steps to remove that information from our servers.

Update
This Privacy Policy was last updated on : 13 June 2023
If you require any more information or have any questions about our privacy policy, please feel free to contact us by email at GeeksforGeeks.
Should we update, amend or make any changes to our privacy policy, those changes will be posted here.
GDPR

DO EU/UK RESIDENTS HAVE SPECIFIC PRIVACY RIGHTS?

This information has been produced to help you understand everything you need to know about the way Sanchhaya Education collects, uses, and shares personal data, what your legal rights are and how to exercise them.

We hope you’ll take some time to read this document; we’ve tried to keep it all as simple as possible and to avoid jargon, and we’ll make our best efforts to keep you informed if there are any changes to the way we process your personal data in the future.

Sanchhaya Education takes its responsibility for protecting your data very seriously and we do advise you to get to know our practices. If there’s anything here you don’t understand, or if you want to ask any questions, please feel free to contact us.

Who is the Data Controller?

We are Sanchhaya Education.

Registered address: A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower,Sector- 136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh (201305)                        
or                                                                                                                                                                    
8th FLOOR TOWER-B, B-808, ADVANT NAVIS BUSINESS PARK, SECTOR-142, NOIDA, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh,201305

In this document Sanchhaya Education may be referred to as “we”, “us”, or “our’ ‘.

What kinds of Personal Data do we Process?

Sanchhaya Education collects personal data for various purposes; with that in mind we have created a list of the types of personal data that we may collect, either directly from yourself or from other sources, in order to achieve those purposes. 

The kinds of personal data we may collect include:
Customer / Client 	Name, email address, Phone numbers, the contents of the message and/or attachments you may send us, and any other information you may choose to provide. Sex, Age, DOB, Place of birth, Citizenship, registration at place of residence and actual address, education, qualification and professional training details, family members, social security (or other taxpayer identification) number.
Applicant / Temp / Volunteer / Intern 	CV, contact details.
Candidate 	CV, contact details, social security details, bank details, gender, parental information, Unified ID number.
Pupil / Student 	Contact details, payment details, educational details.
Supplier / Trade 	Contact details, bank details, taxation details, unified ID number, social security number.
Content creators 	Contact details, social security details, payment details, CV, bank details, gender, parental information, Unified ID number.

What are the reasons we collect Personal Data?

Legal Obligations

Sanchhaya Education uses personal data firstly to fulfil any contractual obligations that exist between us and yourself. Where we request personal data be provided to enter into, or meet the terms of any such contract, you will be required to provide the relevant personal data or we will not be able to deliver the goods or services you want. In such cases the lawful basis of us processing the personal data is that it is necessary for the performance of a contract.

We are required by law to process personal data for purposes relating to our legal obligations, these include:

To provide for our financial commitments, or to relevant financial authorities.

To comply with regulatory requirements and any self-regulatory schemes.

To carry out required business operations and due diligence.

To cooperate with relevant authorities for reporting criminal activity, or to detect and prevent fraud.

To investigate any insurance claims, claims of any kind of harassment or of discrimination, or any other claim whereby the organisation may have to defend itself.

Consent

We may process Personal Data for the following purposes where we have received consent to do so:

To inform you of goods and services provided by third-party organisations.

To provide personal data to third-party organisations for their own future marketing purposes. You can find the list of Third Parties we may share your information with above. 

To offer goods, services, or activities to children.

To monitor people’s activities, either through online means or otherwise, to identify trends and/or behavioural patterns, or for profiling.

newsletters, marketing or promotional materials and other information that may be of interest to you

You may withdraw your consent for us to process your personal data for these purposes at any time; after a withdrawal of consent request is received, we may have to contact you to verify the request.

Withdrawing your consent for us to process your personal data will not affect the lawfulness of the processing beforehand.

If you are under the age of 13, you must have permission from your parents or guardians to use our online services. This is called ‘parental consent’.

If we find out that any person under the age of 13 is using our services without the proper parental consent, we may have to stop that service; this might include deleting your accounts and any data that you have added to them.

Legitimate Interests

We may process Personal Data for any of the following purposes, which are considered to be within our legitimate business interests:

To provide goods and services where it has been requested,

To inform people of goods and services we provide or offers that may interest them,

To send notification on subjects to individuals who have asked to be kept informed,

To improve the quality of the services we offer, and to better understand customers’ needs by requesting feedback, or reviews of the services provided, or sending survey forms,

To send notifications of any changes to the goods and/or services provided that may affect people,

To understand the scale of the customer base; for statistical analysis and market research,

To recognise when people re-engage with our organisation,

To allow the organisation to support and maintain our products in active service,

To provide reference information to third party organisations when necessary,

To improve the organisations website & app so content is delivered more efficiently,

To enhance the security measures in place that protect data we are responsible for,

To protect the organisation’s assets

Where do we obtain Personal Data from?

We will collect personal data directly from you in various ways. This could include when you complete an online form, or if you provide the data directly to a representative of Sanchhaya Education.

We collect some personal data from publicly accessible sources such as:

Recruitment platforms.

We may also gather personal data by any of the following methods:

From technical functionality that gathers data automatically from computer equipment when people visit our online platforms.

From platforms that make use of device settings that allow geographical location tracking, such as IP Address mapping, WiFi, GPS signals and cell tower positioning.

Who will we share your Personal Data with?

To achieve the above stated purposes for which we process your personal data, we may have to share your personal data with certain third parties.

We shall make all reasonable efforts to ensure that any third-party we share your personal data with is also compliant with data protection law.

The kinds of third parties we may share your personal data with include:

Organisation where it is necessary to provide goods or services.

Organisations where it is necessary to set up various resources.

Organisations that are acting as our marketing agents.

Regional and/or local government authorities.

Where will we store your Personal Data?

As a part of our standard business practices, we may transfer your personal data to organisations based in countries that have not been granted an adequacy decision under the General Data Protection Regulation.

Where data is transferred to such countries, we shall ensure that specific safeguards or derogations have been established.

These might include where the data transfer is necessary in order to fulfil a contract between us and yourself, where we have received your specific consent after having made you aware of any risks involved, or where contracts are in place between us and the third-parties involved that ensure the recipient organisation has a suitable standard of data protection in place.

How long will we keep your Personal Data?

We will keep your personal data only for as long as required to achieve the purposes for which it was collected, in line with this privacy notice.

The following criteria are what determine the period for which we will keep your personal data:

Until we are no longer required to do so to comply with regulatory requirements or financial obligations.

Until we are no longer required to do so by any law we are subject to.

Until all purposes for which the data was originally gathered have become irrelevant or obsolete.

Until it has been requested that we no longer process the data and that it is erased; in some cases, where there is a remaining relevant or legal reason why we are required to keep this data, we may opt to restrict the amount of processing being conducted to what is absolutely necessary rather than erase it.

Data is retained for as long as an account stays active and it is then deleted within 15 days after the account is deleted.

Your Rights, Our Responsibility

There are several rights granted to you immediately upon providing us with your personal information; some of these are mentioned above. We’d like you to know that at Sanchhaya Education we take your rights seriously and will always conduct ourselves in a way that is considerate of our responsibility to serve your legal rights. 

The Right of Access

This grants you the right to confirm whether or not your personal data is being processed, and to be provided with relevant details of what those processing operations are and what personal data of yours is being processed.

If you would like access to the personal data we have about you, we ask that you contact us using the details below.

The Right to Rectification

This one is fairly straightforward; if you notice that the data we have about you is inaccurate or incomplete, you may request we rectify the mistake. We will make every effort to respond to requests of this type immediately.

The Right to Erasure

Otherwise known as the ‘right to be forgotten’, this gives you the right to request your personal data be deleted.

This is not an absolute right; if you were to request that we erase your personal data, we would erase as much of that data as we could but may have to retain some information if it is necessary.

Where we have received a request for personal data to be erased, if it is necessary for us to retain some of that information we shall ensure that the remaining data is used only when and where it is absolutely necessary.

The Right to Objection

The right to object is a basic freedom all democracies enjoy. If you wish to object to the way we use, or have used, your personal data you may do so freely.

The Right to Portability

This is a legal right afforded to you that states we must pass on all of the details you have provided to us in a machine-readable format, either to your or to another provider of your choosing. 

The Right to Complain

We will always try to maintain the highest standards and encourage the confidence our customers have in us as an organisation. To achieve this, we request that any complaints be first brought to our attention so we can properly investigate matters. If you would like to complain about Sanchhaya Education to a regulatory body, you may do so by contacting your local data protection supervisory authority.

You can access the Data Processing Agreement here – Link

Sanchhaya Education Contact Details

Sanchhaya Education (GeeksForGeeks)

8th FLOOR TOWER-B, B-808, ADVANT NAVIS BUSINESS PARK, SECTOR-142, NOIDA, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh,201305
or  
A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower,
Sector- 136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh (201305)

Legal@geeksforgeeks.org
CCPA

DO CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS HAVE SPECIFIC PRIVACY RIGHTS?

If you are under 18 years of age, reside in California, and have a registered account with Services, you have the right to request removal of unwanted data that you publicly post on the Services. To request removal of such data, please contact us using the contact information provided below and include the email address associated with your account and a statement that you reside in California. We will make sure the data is not publicly displayed on the Services, but please be aware that the data may not be completely or comprehensively removed from all our systems if your data is required to provide services to you.

What categories of personal information do we collect?

We have collected the following categories of personal information in the past twelve (12) months:
Category 	Examples 	

Collected
	

Disclosed
	

Sold
A. Identifiers 	Contact details, such as real name, alias, postal address, telephone or mobile contact number, unique personal identifier, online identifier, Internet Protocol address, email address, and account name 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO
B. Personal information categories listed in the California Customer Records statute 	Name, contact information, education, employment, employment history, and financial information 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO
C. Protected classification characteristics under California or federal law 	Gender and date of birth 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO
D. Commercial information 	Transaction information, purchase history, financial details, and payment information 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO
E. Biometric information 	Fingerprints and voiceprints 	

NO
	

NO
	

NO

F. Internet or other similar network activity
	Browsing history, search history, online behavior, interest data, and interactions with our and other websites, applications, systems, and advertisements 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO
G. Geolocation data 	Device location 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO
H. Audio, electronic, visual, thermal, olfactory, or similar information 	Images and audio, video or call recordings created in connection with our business activities 	

YES
	

NO
	

NO
I. Professional or employment-related information 	Business contact details in order to provide you our Services at a business level or job title, work history, and professional qualifications if you apply for a job with us 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO
J. Education Information 	Student records and directory information 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO

K. Inferences drawn from other personal information
	Inferences drawn from any of the collected personal information listed above to create a profile or summary about, for example, an individual’s preferences and characteristics 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO
L. Sensitive Personal Information 	Account login information and precise geolocation 	

YES
	

YES
	

NO

We will use and retain the aforementioned collected personal information as needed to provide the Services or until a user raises a deletion request. The details will be removed 15 days after the deletion request is received. 

Category L information may be used, or disclosed to a service provider or contractor, for additional, specified purposes. You have the right to limit the use or disclosure of your sensitive personal information.

We may also collect other personal information outside of these categories through instances where you interact with us in person, online, or by phone or mail in the context of:

    Receiving help through our customer support channels;

    Participation in customer surveys or contests; and

    Facilitation in the delivery of our Services and to respond to your inquiries.

How do we use and share your personal information?

GeeksforGeeks collects and shares your personal information through:

    Targeting cookies/Marketing cookies

    Social media cookies

    Beacons/Pixels/Tags

    Click redirects: Ads.

    Social media plugins: Google, Github, Linkedin, Apple, Facebook.. Such features may process your Internet Protocol (IP) address and track which page you are visiting on our website & app. We may place a cookie to enable the feature to work correctly. We have no control over how a Third Party app is storing or using your information, please go through their policy for the same. 

You may contact us by email at support@geeksforgeeks.org, or by referring to the contact details at the bottom of this document. If you are using an authorized agent to exercise your right to opt out we may deny a request if the authorized agent does not submit proof that they have been validly authorized to act on your behalf.

Will your information be shared with anyone else?

We may disclose your personal information with our service providers pursuant to a written contract between us and each service provider. Each service provider is a for-profit entity that processes the information on our behalf, following the same strict privacy protection obligations mandated by the CCPA.

We may use your personal information for our own business purposes, such as for undertaking internal research for technological development and demonstration. This is not considered to be “selling” your personal information.

Your rights with respect to your personal data

Right to request deletion of the data — Request to delete

You can ask for the deletion of your personal information. If you ask us to delete your personal information, we will respect your request and delete your personal information, subject to certain exceptions provided by law, such as (but not limited to) the exercise by another consumer of his or her right to free speech, our compliance requirements resulting from a legal obligation, or any processing that may be required to protect against illegal activities.

Right to be informed — Request to know

Depending on the circumstances, you have a right to know:

    whether we collect and use your personal information;

    the categories of personal information that we collect;

    the purposes for which the collected personal information is used;

    whether we sell or share personal information to third parties;

    the categories of personal information that we sold, shared, or disclosed for a business purpose;

    the categories of third parties to whom the personal information was sold, shared, or disclosed for a business purpose;

    the business or commercial purpose for collecting, selling, or sharing personal information; and

    the specific pieces of personal information we collected about you.

In accordance with applicable law, we are not obligated to provide or delete consumer information that is de-identified in response to a consumer request or to re-identify individual data to verify a consumer request.

Right to Non-Discrimination for the Exercise of a Consumer’s Privacy Rights

We will not discriminate against you if you exercise your privacy rights.

Right to Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information

You have the right to direct us to limit its use of your sensitive personal information to that use which is necessary to perform the Services.

Please note that sensitive personal information that is collected or processed without the purpose of inferring characteristics about a consumer is not covered by this right, as well as the publicly available information.

To exercise your right to limit use, deletion and disclosure of sensitive personal information, please submit a request form by clicking here* 

Upon receiving your request, we will need to verify your identity to determine you are the same person about whom we have the information in our system. These verification efforts require us to ask you to provide information so that we can match it with information you have previously provided us. 

However, if we cannot verify your identity from the information already maintained by us, we may request that you provide additional information for the purposes of verifying your identity and for security or fraud-prevention purposes.

Other privacy rights

    You may object to the processing of your personal information.

    You may request correction of your personal data if it is incorrect or no longer relevant, or ask to restrict the processing of the information.

    You can designate an authorized agent to make a request under the CCPA on your behalf. We may deny a request from an authorized agent that does not submit proof that they have been validly authorized to act on your behalf in accordance with the CCPA.

    You may request to opt out from future selling or sharing of your personal information to third parties. Upon receiving an opt-out request, we will act upon the request as soon as feasibly possible, but no later than fifteen (15) days from the date of the request submission.

To exercise these rights, you can contact us by email at support@geeksforgeeks.org, or by referring to the contact details at the bottom of this document. If you have a complaint about how we handle your data, we would like to hear from you.

CONTROLS FOR DO-NOT-TRACK FEATURES

Most web browsers and some mobile operating systems and mobile applications include a Do-Not-Track (“DNT”) feature or setting you can activate to signal your privacy preference not to have data about your online browsing activities monitored and collected. At this stage no uniform technology standard for recognizing and implementing DNT signals has been finalized. As such, we do not currently respond to DNT browser signals or any other mechanism that automatically communicates your choice not to be tracked online. If a standard for online tracking is adopted that we must follow in the future, we will inform you about that practice in a revised version of this privacy notice.
Copyright Infringement and DMCA

This site is an Internet “service provider” under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. Section 512 (“DMCA”). For concerns related to copyright infringement and DMCA Notice, you may visit this page and submit a query for the same. If the posted material is believed in good faith by us to violate any applicable law, we will remove or disable access to any such material, and we will notify the posting party that the material has been blocked or removed.
In notifying us of alleged copyright infringement, the DMCA requires that you include the following information:
1. Name of publisher of the website & app Maths-Formulas app/blog or the claimant.
2. Link to the infringed content.
3. Link to the content on your website & app or blog.
4. Date on which the content was published on your website & app or blog.
5. A statement by you that you have a good faith belief that the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, or its agent, or by the operation of any law;
6. A statement by you, signed under penalty of perjury, that the information in the notification is accurate and that you have the authority to enforce the copyrights that are claimed to be infringed; and
7. Claimant’s contact details.
Rest assured that if it is determined that any copyright rights have been violated, we will take the appropriate measures.
COOKIE POLICY

A cookie is a small piece of data that a website & app asks your browser to store on your computer or mobile device. The cookie allows the website & app to “remember” your actions or preferences over time.

Most browsers support cookies, but users can set their browsers to decline them and can delete them whenever they like.

If you use GeeksforGeeks, both GeeksforGeeks and third parties will use cookies to track and monitor some of your activities on and off GeeksforGeeks, and store and access some data about you, your browsing history, and your usage of GeeksforGeeks.

This policy describes how both GeeksforGeeks and other third parties use cookies both within and without GeeksforGeeks and how you can exercise a better control over cookies. Please keep in mind that this may alter your experience with our platform, and may limit certain features (including being logged in as a user).

General Browsing: We use cookies that are important for certain technical features of our website & app, like logging into user accounts and implementing fixes and improvements to our platform.

These cookies help us:

    Remember users’ custom preferences and help create more useful products
    Allow users to opt out of certain types of modeling, tailoring, or personalization in our products
    Collect information on our users’ preferences in order to create more useful products
    Cookies can also be used for online behavioral target advertising and to show adverts relevant to something that the user searched for in the past

Advertising: We use cookies to enable advertising with our third-party Partners, which in turn allows us to provide many of our services free of charge.

These cookies:

    Customize the ad experience for our users, including tailoring job and display ads to the technologies a person has previously looked at, the communities a person has visited, and the job ads a person has already seen
    Allow direct communication between a 3rd party partner who hosts a promotional event with us, and users who have opted into the promotion
    Allow us to track when a GeeksforGeeks user sees or clicks on an ad or later visits a third-party website & app or purchases a product on a third-party website & app
    Collect impressions and click data for internal reporting and product optimization

Analytics: We use cookies to compile usage activity in order to better cater our Products and Services offerings to you, and to third parties. We DO NOT share identifiable “raw” data with our clients or any third parties, however we do make high-level decisions based on aggregated data about your usage of our Products and Services.

These cookies:

    Monitor site traffic and behavior flows of users
    Measure the effectiveness of on-site products
    Measure the effectiveness of off-site marketing campaigns and tactics

WHAT INFORMATION IS COLLECTED ON ME VIA COOKIES?

In general, we collect most data from you via form submission. However, there are cases when visiting our site and/or using our platforms in which we may receive certain information through the use of cookies. This data will generally not include personally identifying information about you.

    Unique identification tokens
    User preferences

Third Party Cookies

The use of cookies, the names of cookies, and other cookies related to cookie technology may change over time and GeeksforGeeks will make all reasonable efforts to notify you. Please also note that companies and other organizations that sponsor pages on GeeksforGeeks may use cookies or other technologies to learn more about your interest in their products and services and in some cases to tailor such products and services to you.

HOW DO I RESTRICT COOKIES?

Please note that GeeksforGeeks may not work properly and you may have diminished functionality if you wish to opt-out of certain cookies.

If you decide that you do not want cookies to be set on your device by our third-party Partners, you can adjust the settings on your internet browser and choose from the available Cookies setting to best meet your preferences. While setting options may vary from browser to browser, you can generally choose to reject some or all cookies, or instead to receive a notification when a cookie is being placed on your device. For more information, please refer to the user help information for your browser of choice. Please keep in mind that cookies may be required for certain functionalities, and by blocking these cookies, you may limit your access to certain parts or features of our sites and platforms.

Finally, while cookies are set for varying durations on your device, you can manually delete them at any time. However, deleting cookies will not prevent the site from setting further cookies on your device unless you adjust the settings discussed above.

For any query, you can reach out to our help center